---
  title: Hypothetical Planets
  categories: pending
---

A hypothetical planet is a planet that may or may not exist. However, rather
than just being an unconfirmed planet until sufficient evidence is gathered one
way or another, they are actually spacial anomalies where they exist in a
superposition of existing and not existing, until their existance is confirmed
by an outside entity and they collapse onto one of the options.

Due to the nature of their survival, philosophy would be key to successful
hypothetical planets/civilizations.

It is unknown whether all planets are/were hypothetical planets in nature, with
normal planets collapsing into existance.

## Inspiration

Inspired by this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=enpWDHXrG4A&t=330s)
about [SCP-4774](http://www.scp-wiki.net/scp-4774).

## Hypothetical Civilizations

Hypothetical civilizations are the civilizations that may come to exist on a
hypothetical planet, and are also in a superposition of existance independent of
the planets existance. That means that if the planet does exist, it is still
possible for the civilization not to exist (however, if the planet does not
exist than it would not be possible for the civilization to exist).

Some hypothetical civilizations realize the nature of the existance, and realize
that their survival is contingent on outside civilizations not investigating (a)
the existance of their planet and (b) the existance of their
species/civilization. Most hypothetical civilizations do not survive for long
due to not realizing their nature and/or outside entities investigating them.
However, some civilizations develope the power to warn other civilizations of
the nature of the existance and perhaps convince them to not investigate, as
with SCP-4774.

However, hypothetical civilizations can interact with normal  entities as long
as the normal entities remain unconvinced of the existance of  the civilization.
For example, while SCP-4774 seems to have a peaceful and defensive nature of
discouraging investigation, an offensive approach could instead by taken whereby
ships (or other means of) investigating are attacked and destroyed or otherwise
discouraged in a way leaving the investigating entity unwilling or unable to
continue their investigation, but most importantly unconvinced of the planet
and species' existance.

An interesting thought is what occurs if the species becomes space-fairing. I
feel like they would not be able to exist on non-hypothetical planets, and thus
any spacial empire of their must only exist on hypothetical planets. What would
their interaction with other hypothetical civilizations be like? If they possess
spaceships, are they also hypothetical? If they have an empire spanning
multiple planets, what happens if one is discovered? What if their planet of
origin is discovered?

## Aftermath

The universe is not fond of the collapse of hypothetical planets' superposition,
and a tear is formed. Any sapient organisms that they of the hypothetical planet
will no longer know of it, but not in a symmetrical fasion do to the tear. They
will have competing recollections of what happened and it is possible that
madness will insue. It is very possible that this effect is not inherent to the
universe, but an effect enforced by a particularly powerful hypothetical
civilization trying to discourage and punish any investigation in a Pavlovian
style.

These tears can be particularly powerful, and possibly lead to other dimensions
where the opposite outcome occured, and many parallel opposite outcomes.
Naturally this can become dangerous if ships are able (or forced) through the
tear, but it can also be a powerful source of energy generation.
